{% docs professsional_services_automation %}

## Professional Services Automation

Tenrox is a 3rd party tool used by Consulting team to log activities and keep track of their projects. From Tenrox, important financial decisions are also taken like for instance Revenue Generated by consulting activities, booked activities, commissions, and more. For this reason, Consulting data surfaced from Tenrox is expecially crucial for ECS Finance and the whole GCD Organization, but it also has an impact on CSMs when it comes to calculate the impact of consulting activities into Growth. 

In past, we used to pull data from Denodo views connected with Tenrox, which presented a series of challenges, one of the most important being the fact the data was up to 3 days behind what was in Tenrox. Along with that, any data reconciliation was impossible given the data manipulation what was happening in between and the different refresh rate. 

This data product was developed to meet the visual and data requirements associated to Professional Services Automation (PSA) Enterprise dataset . The PSA datasets are related to the Global Consulting Delivery projects, and shows the performances of the same on on different dimensions. Some of the existing use cases are:

1. Analysis of profit Margins Variances and Performances.
2. Calculating different types of metrics/KPIs related to the time details of resources/employees .
3. Tracking the progress of hours delivered versus budget hours, based on expiration dates for AS IS Projects.

For this reason, decision has been taken to ingest the whole Tenrox Data first in a raw state, to then rationalize and curate it until giving him the status of Enterprise Dataset, accessible from EAX Semantic Layer and available in Self Service for ECS Analysts and Finance. 

### Data Model

The data is modeled based on the current usage of Tenrox data on the various dashboards such as Margin Variance, Utilization Dashboard and AS/IS Dashboard. There fore it has two set od data models i.e

1. A main data model comprising of proejct details with margin variance, utilization or allocated and forecasted hours, resource or user name details.
2. AS IS data model comprising of AS IS parent projects, AS IS child prokects, AS IS Exhibits, Service Engagements and Service Purchase details.



{% enddocs %}